---
layout: post
title: How To Use Laws Protecting Political Privacy
published: true
---
<p><a title="political privacy" href="http://www.howtovanish.com/2012/06/laws-protecting-political-privacy" target="_blank">Political privacy</a> has always been a concern in civilized countries. Despite the massive fraud that modern governments are voters should feel that they have the right to vote however they wish without their votes being made public.<br/><br/>  Politicians should not be given the right to know how each individual has voted. There have been many examples in the past where sociopath politicians, the usual kind, have used such information to genocide their opposition.</p>
<p><strong>LAWS PROTECTING PRIVACY</strong></p>
<p>There are laws set in place to protect voters from racial discrimination. Federal laws enforced by the Justice Department have been established to ensure that every American citizen over the age of eighteen has the right to register and vote.</p>
<p>The Absentee Voting Act of 1986 was created to ensure that all overseas citizens and members of the armed forces who are stationed in other countries can vote. Absentee ballot voting systems are supposed to protect each voter’s privacy. Just because they are not at home to vote in their local polling booths does not mean they should give up the privacy of their voting patterns.</p>
<p><strong>HELP AMERICA VOTE ACT (2002)</strong></p>
<p>The Help America Vote Act ensures privacy protection for individuals with disabilities. It requires that every state makes the voting machines, ballots, and polling places accessible to individuals with disabilities. The law also requires that assistance be given to voters with limited English.<br/><br/>  Every polling place in the country must have at least one machine available for voters with disabilities. The Justice Department provides a checklist to every polling precinct to evaluate its compliance with this Act.</p>
<p>If your local polling area does not comply then you may want to threaten litigation to require compliance.</p>
<p><strong>SECRET BALLOTS </strong></p>
<p>Also known as the “Australian Ballot”, since Australia was the first country to use this voting system, a secret ballot allows for a voter to vote in secrecy and provides political privacy. This is also a popular method for voting in the corporate setting, with HOAs and other private organizations.</p>
<p>The aim is to ensure that citizens vote sincerely without being influenced or intimidated by another party. They should not have to worry about intimidation or bribery. But it should be kept in mind that the State's modus operendi, as evidenced in countless examples throughout history, is intimidation, bribery, corruption and genocide.</p>
<p>In this kind of system, the names of the nominees are either listed on a sheet of paper or on a voting machine. The voter can select the nominee(s) for whom he or she wishes to vote and submit the ballot anonymously.</p>
<p>[HTML1]</p>
<p><strong>REASONS FOR PROTECTION LAWS</strong></p>
<p>We must all admit that politics and corruption are synonymous. Some deluded individuals harbor the false belief that citizens should be able to vote sincerely and without fear of repercussion.<br/><br/>  These types of laws that protect political privacy are merely marketing tactics to deceive people about the true nature of the State.</p>
<p>Some interest groups might need government funding for their projects and research. If their votes were not kept private politicians could spitefully withhold their funding. For example, in Ontario in 2002 when a federal Liberal Member of Parliament sent an inappropriate note to a constituent informing the gentleman that if he required help with a certain matter, he “better vote liberal” caused quite the controversy.</p>
<p>And you cannot put all the blame on one party as they are all involved. Every political party around the world has had its share of corruption where voting is concerned.</p>
<p>What can we do to maintain our political <a title="privacy rights for americans" href="http://www.howtovanish.com/2012/05/privacy-rights-for-americans/">privacy rights for Americans</a>? Since political <a title="privacy" href="http://www.howtovanish.com/2012/03/how-to-prevent-identity-theft-and-what-to-do-if-it-happens/" target="_blank">privacy</a> is such an important issue, for those that actually care to participate in the corrupt organization, there are a number of national, state, and regional organizations who support voters’ rights. If you ever have any concerns then you can contact an organization such as Citizens for Voting Integrity, Coalition Against Election Fraud, or the American Civil Liberties Union.</p>
<p>Hopefully, you now have an idea of what political privacy is and how you can attempt to protect it. <br/><br/> And remember: ALWAYS go that extra mile to protect your personal information by implementing stealth tactics from sources like <a title="Privacy" href="http://www.howtovanish.com/products/how-to-vanish-book/">How To Vanish The Book</a> and <a title="Privacy Shop" href="https://www.coindl.com/page/author/61" target="_blank">The Mini-Guide To Political Privacy</a>.</p>
<p>And in the meantime, be sure to watch this video about what governments are really all about:</p>
<p>[HTML2]</p>
